## Introduction

<!-- Targeting specific cell populations is a universal challenge in protein therapies. -->

Cell-specific targeting is a universal challenge in drug design. Even with a drug of specific molecular effect, genetic and non-genetic heterogeneity can create a wide distribution of cell responses. This results in reduced effectiveness and toxicity. For example, in cancer, resistance to anti-tumor antibodies [@doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1735], targeted inhibitors [@pmid:20129249], chemotherapies [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2016.03.025], and chimeric antigen receptor T cells [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1407222; @doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aaa0984] all can arise through the selection of cells within a heterogeneous population. Indeed, the immune system even takes advantage of heterogeneity at the single-cell level to translate noisy inflammatory signals into robust yet sensitive responses. Even in the absence of heterogeneity, target cells can differ from off-target populations only by subtle changes in surface receptor expression. These challenges place upper bounds on the selective effects of therapies within the body.

<!-- Need alternative strategies for engineering specificity. -->

Further improving cell-specific targeting will require new strategies of engineering specificity. Protein therapies have mostly been engineered to target specific cell types through mutations changing binding affinity to specific surface antigens [@pmid:25992859]. This strategy can enhance specificity, but only to a limited degree, particularly when target cells can only be distinguished by subtle quantitative differences in surface antigen or by combinations of markers. The limitations of single-antigen targeting have led to efforts to engineer logic and more complex programs into cellular therapies to recognize target cells more specifically [@doi:10.1126/science.aay2790; @pmid:30889382; @doi:10.1016/j.cell.2018.03.038]. However, protein and other non-cellular therapies have considerable benefits in drug access, manufacturing, and reliability.

<!-- We need computational models to make sense of this. -->
<!-- TODO: Rewrite. -->
An expanded set of potential molecular changes will necessitate computational models to direct these engineering efforts. New molecular tools have revealed that our bodies are a vast collection of unique and distinct cells and computational methods have been central to exploring cell-to-cell heterogeneity. However, engineering therapies to overcome heterogeneity requires a fundamentally different modeling approach from that of data exploration. Unlike other areas of machine learning prediction, biology requires modeling approaches that can effectively extrapolate to entirely new situations. The wealth of information we have about the structure of molecular pathways can help. Mechanistic pathway models also provide specific guidelines for the molecular changes that maximize drug response.

Here, we analyze a suite of molecular strategies for engineering cell-specific binding molecules using a multi-valent, multi-receptor, multi-ligand binding model. We show that changes including affinity, valency, and hetero-valent complexes provide distinct and non-overlapping improvements in cell-specific targeting. With each strategy, we highlight evidence of these strategies working in existing therapeutic agents. Finally, we combine these strategies to target cells through combinatorial strategies. In total, our results demonstrate that binding programs can offer combinatorial targeting strategies similar to complex engineered cellular therapies, and synthesize these strategies within a mechanistic binding model.
