## Introduction

<!-- Targeting specific cell populations is a universal challenge in protein therapies. -->

Many drugs both derive their therapeutic benefit and avoid toxicity through selective binding to specific cells within the body. Often, target cells can differ from off-target populations only subtly in surface receptor expression, making selective activation of target cells difficult to achieve. Even with a drug of very specific molecular binding, genetic and non-genetic heterogeneity can create a wide distribution of cell responses. This can result in reduced effectiveness and increased toxicity. Specific cell targeting is a universal challenge in protein-based therapies. For example, in cancer, resistance to anti-tumor antibodies [@doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1735], targeted inhibitors [@pmid:20129249], chemotherapies [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2016.03.025], and chimeric antigen receptor T cells [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1407222; @doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aaa0984] all can arise through the selection of target cells among heterogeneous cell populations. While the immune system takes advantage of heterogeneity at the single-cell level to translate noisy inflammatory signals into robust yet sensitive responses [@PMID:24919153], this heterogeneity impedes our effort of creating a highly specific drug. The intricacies of both inter-population receptor expression differences and intra-population receptor expression heterogeneity present significant challenges that limit the selectivity of therapies within the body.

<!-- Need alternative strategies for engineering specificity. -->

Further improving cell-specific targeting will require new strategies of engineering specificity. Non-cellular therapies such as protein therapies have most extensively been engineered to target specific cell types through mutations that provide high-affinity binding to unique surface antigens [@pmid:25992859]. This strategy can enhance specificity, but only to a limited degree, particularly when target cells can only be distinguished by subtle quantitative differences in surface antigen or by combinations of markers. The limitations of single-antigen targeting have led to efforts to program complex logic into cellular therapies to recognize target cells more specifically [@doi:10.1126/science.aay2790; @pmid:30889382; @doi:10.1016/j.cell.2018.03.038]. However, non-cellular therapies have considerable benefits in drug access, manufacturing, and reliability; some of the same benefits have begun to be engineered into these agents.

<!-- We need computational models to make sense of this. -->
The enormous number of potential configurations of ligand designs make computational tools essential for designing highly selective therapies [@doi:10.1101/812131]. Here, we analyze a suite of molecular approaches for engineering cell-specific binding using a multi-valent, multi-receptor, multi-ligand binding model. We show that strategies including affinity, valency, binding competition, ligand mixtures, and hetero-valent complexes provide distinct improvements in cell-specific targeting. Finally, we combine these strategies to target cells through combinatorial methods. In total, our results demonstrate that multi-valent ligands can offer offer effective cell specific targeting without the need to engineer complex cellular therapies, and that their design can be guided using a mechanistic binding model.
