## Results

### A Model System For Exploring The Contributing Factors To Cell Selectivity

![**A model system for exploring the contributing factors to cell selectivity.** a) A simplified schematic of the binding model. There are two types of receptors and two types of ligand monomers that form a tetravalent complex. b) A cartoon for four cell populations expressing two different receptors with low or high level. c) A sample heat/contour map for the model-perdicted log ligand bound given the expression of two types of receptors. d) Eight theoretical cell populations with various receptor expression profile.](figure1.svg){#fig:model}

Here we investigate cell-specific targeting quantitatively by extending an equilibrium, multi-valent, multi-ligand binding model. Virtually any therapy, including monoclonal antibodies, small-molecule inhibitors, and cytokines, can be thought of as ligands for respective receptors expressed on target cells. Ligand binding to target cells is the first step and essential for a drug's intended action; in contrast, binding to off-target cells can result in unintended effects or toxicity. Some cell populations can be distinguished by unique receptor expression, but more commonly target and off-target cells express the same collection of receptors and differ only in their amounts. In such situations, engineering drugs optimized to achieve more ligand bound to the target cells, while minimizing the binding to off-target cells, is an area of ongoing research and has inspired myriad drug design strategies [@doi:10.1038/sj.bjc.6604700; @doi:10.1021/cb6003788; @doi:10.1038/s41586-018-0830-7]. We will use a quantitative binding estimation for these two cell populations to examine these strategies.

While ligand-receptor binding events in biology are diverse, they are governed by their thermodynamic properties and the law of mass action. When a reaction reaches its equilibrium state, the ratio of the concentration of monomeric ligand-receptor complex, $[LR]$, to the product of the concentrations of each, $[L][R]$, can be defined as an association constant $K_a$. The number of ligands in the solution is usually much greater than that of the receptors so that binding does not deplete the ligand concentration. Binding behavior is more complex when the ligands are multivalent complexes consisting of multiple units, each of which can bind to a receptor (Fig. {@fig:model}a). During an initial association, the first subunit on a ligand complex binds according to the same dynamics that govern monovalent binding. Subsequent binding events exhibit different behavior, however. Here, we assume that the effective association constant for the subsequent bindings is proportional to that of the free binding, but scaled by a constant, $K_x^*$, due to its different local concentration and steric effects. Another consideration that must be made when modeling multivalent binding processes is whether a ligand complex is formed by a random assortment of monomer units or by specific engineering resulting in complexes of a defined monomer composition. We developed a multivalent binding model that calculates the amount of ligand bound at equilibrium taking each of these factors into account (see methods).

As a simplification, we will consider theoretical cell populations that express only two receptors capable of binding ligand (Fig. {@fig:model}b), ranging in abundance from 100 to 10,000 per cell. Figure {@fig:model}c shows the log-scaled predicted amount of binding of a monovalent ligand given the abundance of two receptors. Because all axes are log-scaled the number of contour lines between two points indicates the ratio of ligand binding between populations. For instance, in figure {@fig:model}c, cell populations at points 1 and 2 are on the same contour line and thus have the same amount of ligand bound; the cell populations at points 1 and 3 have multiple contour lines between and so point 3 has more ligand binding. (In fact, the ratio can be read as the exponent of the contour line difference. For point 3 to point 1, the ratio is $e ^{4.6-2.3} \approx 7.4$.)

As an example, we chose the concentration of ligand, $L_0$, to be 1 nM, and the association constants to the two receptors to be $10^5$ M^-1^ and $10^7$ M^-1^, respectively. Figure {@fig:model}c shows that when the amount of $R_1$ increases on a cell (a point moves rightward, e.g. from 1 to 2), the amount of binding doesn’t increase significantly. On the contrary, adding more $R_2$ (moving upward, e.g. from 1 to 3) will lead to a great boost on ligand bound. The high affinity of $R_2$ enables the cells to capture more ligands if they were to express more $R_2$ as compared to more $R_1$. This situation corresponds to some cue inducing expression of a receptor (e.g. interferon-induced upregulation of MHC [CITE], or regulatory T cell upregulation of IL-2R⍺ [CITE]).

To analyze more general cases, we defined eight theoretical cell populations according to their differential expression of two receptor types ($R_1$ and $R_2$ plotted on x and y axes). As shown in Fig {@fig:model}d, they either have high ($10^4$), medium ($10^3$), or low ($10^2$) expression of $R_1$ and $R_2$. To account for cell-to-cell heterogeneity, we also defined intrapopulation variability. For instance, the expression profile of $R_1^{med} R_2^{med}$ has a wider range. We will use this binding model to examine how engineering on affinity, valency, and hetero-valent complexes improve cell-specific targeting. Although we will only consider two receptor and ligand subunit types, respectively, the principles we present generalize to more complex cases.

### Affinity Provides Selectivity Toward Cell Populations With Divergent Receptor Expression

![**Affinity provides selectivity to cell populations with unique receptor expression.** a) Heat/contour maps of monovalent ligand bound to cell populations given their expression profiles of two receptors. Ligand association constants to these receptors range from 10^5^, to 10^7^. b-e) Heatmap of binding ratio of cell populations exposed to a monovalent ligand with association constants to receptor 1 and 2 ranging from 10^5^ to 10^7^, at a concentration of 10 nM. b) Ligand bound ratio of $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$, c) $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$, d) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$, and e) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$](figure2.svg){#fig:affinity}

When a target cell population expresses more of a certain receptor than other cells, or uniquely expresses a particular receptor, enhancing the affinity of this receptor or reducing the affinity of competing receptors are obvious strategies to increase selective binding (Fig. {@fig:affinity}a). As an example, cell type $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ expresses a high amount of receptor 1, while type $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$ expresses receptor 2 at a higher abundance (Fig. {@fig:affinity}a). Enhancing ligand affinity for receptor 1 and weakening its interaction with receptor 2 results in improved binding selectivity toward $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ over the $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$ population (Fig. {@fig:affinity}e). Unsurprisingly, all cell populations with abundant receptor 1 bind greater amounts of ligand in this case. The contour plot on the background shows this trend more intuitively: when the affinity of receptor 1 increases (from the subplots on the left to those on the right), the contour lines shift inward and cluster more densely, indicating an enhanced sensitivity of binding to expression of receptor 1.

However, just as often, both on- and off-target cell populations express the same set of receptors and only differ in their magnitude of expression. An example of this pattern are the $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ and $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$ populations (Fig. {@fig:affinity}a). In this case, the benefit of affinity changes is weakened. Selectively enhancing affinity for the receptor most abundantly expressed on a target population and weakening its interaction with other shared receptors is efficacious in increasing binding selectivity; however, the magnitude of this effect is limited by the fold-difference in receptor amounts (Fig. {@fig:affinity}c). Thus, identifying which receptors a cell population of interest expresses most uniquely is critical.

Cell populations are made up of individual cells with heterogeneous amounts of receptor. For example, in (Fig. @fig:affinity), receptor abundances of type $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$ have high variance. The eclipse representing its range of receptor abundances rides through multiple contour lines, indicating how wide the bound ligand values span. If we choose to maneuver the affinity of receptor 1 to attain more selective binding to the $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ population over the $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$ population, it can be expected that the binding ratio is the average of greater cell-to-cell variation (Fig. @fig:affinity).

### Valency Enables Selectivity To Cell Populations Based On Receptor Expression Levels

Given the limitations of deriving selectivity from changes in affinity, we explored the contribution of valency changes (Fig. {@fig:valency}d). Multivalent ligand binding uniquely differs from monovalent binding due to it's non-linear relationship with cellular receptor density, allowing multivalent ligands to potentially selectively target cells with greater receptor expression densities. The effects of varying ligand valency are visualized in Fig. {@fig:valency}a-c. Here, the amount of ligand bound by cells expressing different abundances of receptor 1 and 2 is quantified. The ligand binds receptor 1 and 2 with equal affinity, and the valency of the ligand is varied across subplots. The most notable effect of varying valency is observed as variable density of binding isoclines in the contour plot. For example, in the monovalent case, the relative levels of binding of $R_1^{lo}R_2^{lo}$, $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$,  and $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$, all of which have identical expression of receptors 1 and 2, is exactly proportional to their receptor abundance. However, in the multivalent case, the density of contour isoclines varies as a function of receptor expression, causing the ligand binding discrepancy between these populations to vary. The location of the densest changes in ligand binding also varies between ligands of valency 4 and 16, demonstrating the tunability of valency engineering.

Selectivity derived from valency engineering also shares a strong reliance on monomer binding affinity. Lower affinity interactions have been shown to exhibit higher levels of selectivity for target cells, in agreeance with our model [@doi:10.1021/cb6003788; @doi:10.1021/jacs.8b09198]. Comparing binding between cell populations exposed to ligands of variable affinities over a range of ligand valency demonstrates the magnitude of this interplay (Fig. {@fig:valency}b-d). Here, ligand binding ratios of cell populations with variable absolute receptor expression levels are shown for ligands of high, medium, and low affinities (association constants of $10^6$, $10^7$, $10^8$ M^-1^). For example, the ligand binding ratios between $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ and $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$ is maximized by low affinity ligands, but require greater valency to achieve peak binding selectivity when compared to ligands of greater affinity (Fig. {@fig:valency}b), thus the "low affinity, high valency" selectivity effect. A similar "sweet spot" of binding affinity and ligand valency is shown to maximize binding selectivity between $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ and $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$, and $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$ and $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$ (Fig. {@fig:valency}c-d). These "sweet spots" of optimal valencies depend on the ligand affinity as well as the target cell populations. Ligands with lower affinities achieve optimal binding with higher valencies and exhibit higher selectivity than the high affinity ligands. With the same ligand affinity but different cell population pairs of interest, the optimal valencies and the maximal binding ratios they attain are also different.

The selectivity for cells expressing higher receptor abundance exhibited by multivalent ligands can be visualized by examining the degree of binding achieved by the ligands. A cell expressing 10^4^ receptors displays similar amounts of ligand binding at each degree for ligands with association constants of 10^6^, 10^7^, and 10^8^ (Fig. {@fig:valency}e). However, a cell expressing a degree of magnitude fewer receptors exhibits extremely low amounts of multivalent binding for ligands complexes of low binding affinity, an effect which illustrates the large binding ratios which can be achieved using low affinity multivalent ligands (Fig. {@fig:valency}f). The mechanism dictating this lack of high-degree binding in cells with low receptor expression densities arises due to a relatively large dissociation rate when compared to a subsequent binding association rate (Fig. {@fig:valency}g). Multivalent ligands will undergo uninhibited primary binding events regardless of receptor expression, but low affinity and density severely limit the possibility of secondary binding events. Thus, cells with higher receptor expression levels accumulate larger quantities of ligand binding due to a velcro-like effect, while cells with lower receptor expression bind ligand only at lower degree, especially when the ligand binds receptors with lower affinity (Fig. {@fig:valency}f). This effect allows for valency engineering to impart powerful selectivity between cells with differences in receptor expression density, where affinity alone may fail.

[@doi:10.1021/cb6003788]

[@doi:10.1021/jacs.8b09198]

[@doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.07.040]

[@doi:10.1038/srep40098]

![**Valency provides selectivity based on receptor expression levels.** a) Heat/contour maps of multivalent ligands bound to cell populations given their expression profiles of two receptors. Multivalent ligand subunits bind to both receptor 1 and 2 with an association constant of $3 \times 10^6$, and complexes vary in valency from 1 to 16. b-d) Ligand binding ratio between various cell populations for ligands of valency ranging from 1 to 16. b) Ligand bound ratio of $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$, c) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$, and d) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$. e-f) Number of ligands bound at each degree of binding for cells exposed to octavalent ligand complexes composed of subunits with a association constants of $1 \times 10^6$, $1 \times 10^7$, or $1 \times 10^8$. d) Number of octavalent complex bound at each degree for a cell with $1 \times 10^4$ receptors. e) Number of octavalent complex bound at each degree for a cell with $1 \times 10^3$ receptors. f) Fraction of forward to reverse binding rates for a multivalent ligand binding to a cell with varying amounts of receptor expression, following an initial binding event.](figure3.svg){#fig:valency}

### Non-Overlapping Ligand Targeting Drives Enhanced Selectivity Of Mixtures

While most therapies rely on the action of a single molecular species, in some cases combinatorial or mixed molecule therapeutics offer enhanced activation selectivity and therefore increased efficacy [@doi:10.1038/nbt.1549]. In cases where multiple ligands are known to bind to and activate available receptors of interest on both target and off-target cells, therapeutic cocktails containing two or more therapeutic ligands might offer unique targeting characteristics. Here, we explore the binding behavior exhibited by mixtures of monovalent ligands.

The binding trends that arise while adjusting the composition of a ligand mixture of constant concentration and containing 2 ligands, each exhibiting preferential binding to a particular receptor is summarized in (Fig. @fig:mixture). The trend that arises is followed intuitively; the magnitude of ligand binding for cell populations exhibiting higher abundances of a particular receptor is maximized when exposed to a drug mixture containing larger amounts of ligand which binds that receptor with high affinity. To highlight this effect, we can compare the predicted binding to the $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ and $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$ populations (Fig. {@fig:mixture} b). The consequences of this phenomena dictate the key limitation governing the utility of mixture engineering; when attempting the maximize binding selectivity of a drug for one population over another single population, the maximum binding ratio will always occur when using a mixture containing a single ligand species (Fig. {@fig:mixture}b). The exception to the rule occurs when the ratios of each receptor type on both target and off-target populations is uniform, in which case engineering mixture composition will have no effect on binding ratio (Fig. {@fig:mixture}a).

While mixture engineering fails to enhance binding selectivity between two cell populations, it is potentially effective when considering three or more off-target cell populations. In situations where target populations express high levels of both target receptors, but selective targeting is complicated by cell populations which express each receptor individually in high amounts, drug mixtures can offer enhanced selectivity. For example, when attempting to target a cell population which mirrors the expression levels of the $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ population, and maximize the binding with respect to two off target populations such as $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ and $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$, which individually express high levels of the receptors found on the $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ popluation, we show that a uniform mixture of ligands with high affinity for receptor 1 and 2 provides optimal targeting selectivity (Fig. {@fig:mixture}c). We also demonstrate utility of mixture engineering in several potential target-off target cell population combinations, where multiple off target populations are considered . However, even in these cases, the magnitude of selectivity enhancement is limited.

Example: [@pmid:28886385]

![**Ligand mixtures with non-overlapping responses can enhance selectivity.** a) Heat/contour maps of multivalent ligands bound to cell populations given their expression profiles of two receptors. A mixture of monovalent ligands is used, with ligand 1 binding to receptor 1 and 2 with association constants of $1x10^6$ and $1x10^5$ $/frac{1}{M}$ respectively, and ligand 2 binding to receptors 1 and 2 with association constants of $1x10^5 M^{-1}$ and $1x10^6 M^{-1}$ respectively. b-e) Ratio of ligand bound to cell populations exposed to monovalent mixtures of ligand one and 2. For c-e, the ratio of the target population to the single off target population with the greatest ligand bound is plotted. b) Ligand bound ratio of $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$, c) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ and $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$, d) $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ and $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$, e) $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ and $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$.](figure4.svg){#fig:mixture}

### Heterovalent Bispecific Ligands Exhibit Unique Charateristics When Activated Fully Bound

Constructing multispecific drug has become a promising new strategy for finer target cell specificity with the advancement of engineering techniques [@doi:10.1038/s41586-020-2168-1]. Here, we use the bispecific ligand as an exemplar to dissect its advantages. Heterovalency is comparable to the two aforementioned strategies: it includes two distinct ligand monomers, similar to a 50%-50% mixture strategy, but these two subunits are tethered together; alternatively, it is also analogous to having a mixture of bivalent ligands. We applied the binding model to these cases with the same set of parameters and compared them in line to identify the unique advantage of heterovalency. These two monomers must have different binding profiles, otherwise it will be identical to the homogeneous bivalent case.

The amount of bispecific ligand bound in general is plotted in Figure @fig:bispecific a, while the ligand-bound of a 50%-50% mix of monovalent ligands in Figure @fig:bispecific b and 50%-50% mix of bivalent ligands in Figure @fig:bispecific c. Given the same parameter, the ligand-bounds of these three cases are almost exactly the same, and bispecific doesn’t exhibit any merit. When $K_x^*$ is relatively small, it is expected that most bindings are the initial docking of the ligand without subsequent binding. Nonetheless, in many heterovalent cases such as the bispecific antibody [@doi:10.1080/19420862.2015.1062192; @pmid:30145356], the drug will not be fully effective unless both subunits bind to targets. To scrutinize this case, we extended our model to calculate the amount of ligand fully bound. The predictions made for bispecific fully bound (with $K_x^* =10^{-12}$) plotted in Figure @fig:bispecific e show a different pattern than general ligand bound. Besides having a lower amount, fully bound ligand prefers double-positively expressed cells. This can be observed from the more concaved isoclines in Figure @fig:bispecific e compare with Figure @fig:bispecific a: in Figure @fig:bispecific e, $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$, $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$, and $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ have about the same level of fully bound ligands. The bispecific also behaves differently from a 50%-50% mixture of homogeneous bivalent ligands when they fully bound, as plotted in Figure @fig:bispecific g. This indicates that bispecific ligand will provide unique enhancement only when the binding of both subunits is required.

The binding characteristics of fully bound bispecific opens up new opportunities for targeting specific cell populations. The specific amount of fully bound ligands depends on the tendency of crosslinking, captured by $K_x^*$, as shown in Figure @fig:bispecific d-f. In general, when $K_x^*$ is larger, the ligands are more capable of multimerization, and there will be more fully bound units. To recognize how the amount of fully bound bispecifics varies comparing with its untethered version (monovalent mixture) and the homogeneous bivalent case, we plotted Figure @fig:bispecific a normalized by @fig:bispecific b in @fig:bispecific h and by @fig:bispecific c in @fig:bispecific i. Compared with the monovalent mixture (Fig. @fig:bispecific h), fully bound bispecific clearly prefers doubly-positive cell populations, although in a non-linear fashion. This is verified by plotting the ratios of selectivities of various population pairs under tethered versus untethered condition in Figure @fig:bispecific k: when $K_x^*$ is small, bispecific fully bound better targets towards $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ population, but doesn’t help separating $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ from $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$. Compared with the bivalent mixture, bispecific fully bound prefers a narrow range of cell population with a certain receptor expression profile, as shown in Figure @fig:bispecific i as the “dark belt”. The position of this dark belt may be dependent on the choices of ligand affinities. $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ sits in this “belt”, thus preferred by the bispecifics. This is also corroborated by Figure @fig:bispecific l, the ratios of selectivities between bivalent mixture and bispecifics, where the green line illustrating the $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$ ratio shoots up with decreasing $K_x^*$.

![**Bispecific ligands exhibit unique effects when they can only be activated with both subunits bind.** a-c) Ordinary ligand bound are dominated by the initial binding of ligands, so it doesn't provide unique advantages to a) bispecific ligand comparing with b) a 50%-50% mixture of monovalent ligands and c) a 50%-50% mixture of bivalent ligands. d-f) The amount of fully bound bispecific ligands depends on the tendency of multimerization, capsuled by $K_x^*$. d) $K_x^* =10^{-10}$, e) $K_x^* =10^{-12}$, f) $K_x^* =10^{-14}$. g) Predictions of fully bound ligand in a mixture of two homogeneous bivalent drugs, which is different from the bispecific case. h) Bispecific fully bound normalized by its untethered counterpart, mixture of monovalents. Bispecific prefers doubly-positive populations. i) Bispecific fully bound normalized by its equivalent homogeneous bivalent mixture case. The "dark belt" covers the preferred populations. j-l) The ratios of selectivities, thus "the ratios of binding ratios", varies with $K_x^*$. j) for bispecifics, fully bound ligands versus general ligand bound, k) bispecific versus monovalent mixture, the untethered, l) bispecific versus a 50%-50% mixture of bivalent.](figure5.svg){#fig:bispecific}

### Combining Strategies For Superior Selectivity

Example: [@pmid:30145356]

While each therapeutic design methodology discussed in this work can drive superior cell-type selectivity in certain situations, the advantages of intersecting these design strategies has yet to be thoroughly explored. Combining ligand design features such as affinity modulation, increasing valency, and mixing therapeutics offers a potential route for synergistically combining the effects offered by each. We explored these potential synergies using a quasi-newton optimizer to determine the optimally cell-type selective ligand for our theoretical cell populations.

It is often the case that target cell populations express receptors common to a range of adjacent, off-target populations. Thus, we sought to determine the optimal ligand for particular cell populations while considering all other theoretical populations to exist as off-target cells. By optimizing within bounds that restricted all ligand modulations, we set our initial binding selectivity performance metric (Fig. @fig:combination). To simulate the effects that affinity engineering could impart on selectivity, we then allowed ligand-receptor affinities to be varied. To understand the effects of valency and mixture engineering on selectivity, we allowed ligand valency and mixtures to vary, while also allowing affinity to vary due to the previously noted reliance that these strategies have on receptor-ligand kinetics. Finally, all ligand parameters were allowed to vary to simulate the effects of combining therapeutic engineering approaches.

Optimizing a ligand for selectivity to $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$ highlights a situation in which combined affinity and valency individually impart greater specificity, and optimal selectivity is achieved by synergistically combining these two strategies (Fig. {@fig:combination}a-f). Here selectivity is optimized by ligands with selective binding to receptor 2, and those with valencies allowing for selective binding to cells with higher abundances of receptor expression. Here, and in many cases, a dominant therapeutic design strategy emerges without consideration of all possible engineering avenues. One case contradictory to this trend is shown during the optimization for selectivity towards the $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ population. While affinity, valency, and mixture engineering are able to impart some small contributions to enhanced selectivity, significant improvement is only achieved when combining all aforementioned strategies (Fig. {@fig:combination}g-l). Here, synergistic combination of strategies can be employed to great effect, granting far superior ligand selectivity. A more difficult design problem is featured in the optimization of $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$, which lies in the midst of the other populations in receptor expression space (Fig. {@fig:mixture}m-r). Here, solely allowing for modulation of affinity, or combining it with mixture-based strategies is ineffective. Only with the introduction of valency modulation is selectivity significantly enhanced. However, an alternative approach to targeting $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$ is presented in Fig. {@fig:combination}s-v. Here the population is exposed to a mixture of an octovalent "dead" ligand which can bind receptors 1 and 2 but is assumed to not induce signaling response and a therapeutic monovalent ligand with optimized affinities. Results are normalized to the selectivity imparted when the dead ligand is non-binding (Fig. {@fig:combination}s). We see here that enhanced selectivity can be achieved by these means, as the dead ligand blocks many of the available receptors on populations expressing higher abundances (Fig. {@fig:mixture}u). 

Our results highlight that both in singular and combined strategies for therapeutic manipulation, the target and off-target populations dictate the optimal approach. It is also clear that combined approaches do offer synergies which can be harnessed, but that those are only emergent in particular therapeutic situations.

![**Combinations of strategies provide superior selectivity.** a,g,m) Optimal selectivity levels (average ligand bound compared to average ligand bound by all other populations) achieved using various ligand engineering techniques at ligand concentrations of 1 nM. Xnot ligands ligands are monovalent ligands with affinities of 1e6 for both receptor 1 and 2. Affinity was allowed to vary between 1e2 and 1e10 for both receptors using th affinity approach. Valency was allowed to vary from 1 to 16 for valency approach in addition to affinities varying. Mixtures were assumed to be monovalent, and affinities were allowed to vary. The combined all approach allowed all of these quantities to vary simultaneously. b-f,h-l,n-f) Heatmap of magnitude of ligand bound for ligand with optimized characteristics according to various ligand engineering strategies. Target population is shown in red. a-f) Pertains to optimal targeting of $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$, g-l) pertains to optimal targeting of $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$, and m-r) pertains to optimal targeting of $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$. s) Selectivity for $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$ when exposed to a tetravalent "dead ligand" with varying affinities for receptors 1 and 2, and a monovalent therapeutic live ligand with affinities optimized for selectivity. Heatmap values are normalized to specificity imparted with non-binding dead ligand, and only binding to live ligand is considered in determination of selecitivty. t-u) Heatmap of live (t) and dead (u) ligand bound for dead and live ligand combination shown to imaprt greatest selectivity. v) Heatmap of live ligand featured in (t) bound when no dead ligand is present.](figure6.svg){#fig:combination}
