## Discussion

<!-- Summary. -->

Here, we employ a multivalent binding model, which accurately recapitulates complex binding phenomena, to explore the situational efficacy of various ligand engineering strategies. Selective targeting of specific cell populations to reduce off-target effects has long been of interest in designing potent and non-toxic therapies. We use our multivalent model to elucidate guidelines for the engineering of ligands which selectively bind to targeting cellular populations according to their unique receptor profiles. We considered distinct engineering strategies, including modulation of receptor-ligand kinetics, ligand valency manipulation, mixtures of therapeutics, and bispecificity, as well as the potential synergies offered by employing these strategies simultaneously. Computational analyses were performed on a family of theoretical cell populations uniquely defined by their expression of two receptors. It should be noted that while only two receptors are considered in this study, the characters of the various ligand engineering techniques we unveiled can be extended to populations with more diverse receptors expressed.

We found that affinity engineering was most efficacious when the target and off-target populations expressed different relative levels of receptors. Promoting the affinity of the receptors that more abundantly expressed on the target cell populations than on the off-target population can effectively increase the binding selectivity, with greater discrepancies in receptor expression enhancing the benefits. When target and off-target populations have similar receptor expression profiles and only different in absolute amounts, affinity engineering was rendered ineffective to enhance selective population targeting, while valency engineering offers a unique avenue. The efficacy of valency engineering was greatly dependent on the kinetics of the receptor-ligand interactions and the receptor expression abundances, as the secondary binding rate relative to the unbinding rate is a key determinant. Mixtures of therapeutic ligands were found to be mostly ineffective in imparting binding selectivity, and only demonstrated limited utility when binding to target populations was compared to binding events on multiple off-target populations. Heterovalent bispecific ligands only show unique advantages over mixtures of monovalent ligands or bivalent ligands when both subunits have to bind to a target. They prefer target populations that have high expression of both receptors over those with high expression of only a single receptor, with the tendency of secondary binding as the key determinant of the magnitude of the advancement. We then considered whether synergies between these ligand engineering techniques could be exploited to achieve enhanced binding selectivity. Using mathematical optimization, we found that in most cases, while a single ligand engineering strategy dominated in its contributions to cell-type selectivity, synergies between these strategies exist in some cases and can be exploited to grant even greater degrees of binding selectivity.

<!-- A number of strategies are already employed. -->

A number of strategies identified are already utilized in existing engineered therapies. For example, affinity changes in the cytokine IL-2 have been used to bias its effects towards either effector or regulatory immune populations [@doi:10.1158/2159-8290.CD-18-1495; @pmid:30446251]. Varying the valency of tumor-targeted antibodies leads to targeted cell clearance based upon the levels of expressed antigen [@doi:10.1038/srep40098]. Manipulation of the affinities of fibronectin domains displayed by octovalent nanorings was shown to enhance the selectivity of binding to cancerous cells displaying relatively higher densities of fibronectin receptors compared to native tissue [@doi:10.1021/jacs.8b09198]. The advantages offered by therapeutics reliant on low-affinity, multivalent interactions to selectively bind cells with high receptor expression densities were also described in a study considering a therapeutic reliant on multivalent complement binding to small-molecule therapeutics with αvβ3 binding domains, which is expressed at higher densities on tumor cells, and ⍺-Gal binding domains which are recognized by multivalent human anti-α-galactosyl antibodies [@doi:10.1021/cb6003788]. These examples lend support to the accuracy of our model. At the same time, recognizing the previously described ligand engineering approaches as separable strategies provides clearer guidance for future engineering.

<!-- Still need to implement others. -->

Nonetheless, many optimization strategies described in this study have not been exploited in pharmaceutical practice yet, not because of the lack of consideration but due to the complexity of real biological contexts. First, some strategies are not practical biochemically. For example, the manipulation of ligand affinity requires intricate protein engineering. While the direction of affinity changes can be predicted, dictating the affinity of an engineered molecular a priori is almost unattainable. Moreover, it is very likely altering the affinity of a ligand to the receptor of interest can change the affinity of it to other receptors, which may offset the intended benefit in improving selectivity. Also, the change in the receptor expression profile of a cell population complicates the matter. It is well documented that cancer cells can escape therapeutic targeting by upregulating [@doi:10.1016/j.devcel.2019.07.010; @doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-13-0602] or downregulating [@pmid:14534734] certain receptors. In this case, not only should the abundance of receptors be considered, but also their variance within a cell population over time. The effects of expression change on the efficacy of a therapeutic are not evident without a mechanism-based analysis. While this work does not intend to solve every aspect of these issues, we propose that using a computational binding model can analyze these strategies quantitatively and collectively from a mechanistic perspective. Even when the absolute mathematical optimum cannot be achieved biochemically, our analyses provide good guidance to what is attainable and how to approach the optimum, accounting those biological complexities and facilitating the implementation of complicated combinations of several strategies.

<!-- No strategies for NOT relationships. -->

While the exploration of our multivalent binding model has elucidated strategies for selective targeting of many populations with respect to one or many off-target populations, several inter-population receptor expression relationships remain challenging to impart selectivity to. For example, target populations that unilaterally express fewer receptors of every type than off-target populations present a unique challenge for the design of a selective ligand. While we computationally show the potential for the simultaneous use of multivalent "dead" ligands, which bind but do not induce a response, and monovalent "live" ligands to exploit reduced receptor expression levels, the translation of such a therapeutic to a clinical application remains questionable (Fig. {@fig:combination} s-v). In cases where a target population expresses fewer receptors of any kind than an off-target population, our analysis suggests that other target receptors or therapeutic strategies should be considered. However, in cases where target populations express more of any type of receptor than an off-target population, we show that one or more of our formulated ligand engineering strategies can be employed to improve binding selectivity.

<!-- Impressive range of logic can be built without cells involved. -->

In many therapeutic applications where selective engagement of target cell populations is an important performance metric, such as the treatment of cancer, cellular engineering is becoming increasingly popular [@doi:10.1146/annurev-immunol-042718-041407]. Human engineered chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are being introduced in the clinical setting at a rapid rate, and advances in genetic engineering technologies have enhanced the potential of engineered immune cells to recognize and attack malignant tissues [@doi:10.1016/j.ymthe.2017.06.012]. These technologies bypass ligand-receptor binding considerations by manipulating the complexities of the immune system to attack cells expressing particular receptors. However, manipulations of the immune system inevitably lead to myriad unintended effects due to the complex regulatory mechanisms which control immune activation and activity. We have shown here that complex and targeted changes to the binding activity of simple therapeutic ligands can be achieved via simple ligand characteristic manipulation. These manipulations can be generally applied to achieve greater selectivity, as well as more precisely guided using a computational binding model. The impressive array of logic described in this study can be applied to guide rational ligand engineering applications. It should be noted that the application of this logic is reliant on knowledge of the target and off-target cell population receptor expression levels. Future application of the ligand binding logic described in this study could be guided using high throughputs single-cell profiling techniques, such as RNA-seq or high-parameter flow cytometry. A computational tool that could translate such data-sets into immediately applicable ligand design criteria may represent a potential avenue for the translation of our analyses into a more broadly applicable ligand engineering tool.

