## Materials and Methods

### Data and Software Availability

All analysis was implemented in Python v3.8, and can be found at <https://github.com/meyer-lab/cell-selective-ligands>.

### Generalized multi-ligand, multi-receptor multivalent binding model

To model multivalent ligand complexes, we extended our previous binding model to the multi-ligand case [@pmid:29960887; @doi:10.1101/2021.03.10.434776]. We define $N_L$ as the number of distinct monomer ligands, $N_R$ the number of distinct receptors, and the association constant of monovalent binding between ligand $i$ and receptor $j$ as $K_{a,ij}$. Multivalent binding interactions after the initial interaction have an association constant of $K_x^* K_{a,ij}$, proportional to their corresponding monovalent affinity. The concentration of complexes at equilibrium is $L_0$, and the complexes consist of random ligand monomer assortments according to their relative proportion. For exogenously administered drugs and in vitro experiments, usually the number of ligand complexes in the solution is much greater than that of the receptors, so it is reasonable to assume binding does not deplete the ligand concentration significantly, and we can use the initial concentration as $L_0$. Otherwise, we need to estimate $L_0$ from the initial concentration (see section 4.3 in [@doi:10.1101/2021.03.10.434776] for details). The model implicitly assumes that all receptors are uniformly mixed on the cell surface. Should different receptors be organized in discrete domains, the model would have to be updated to account for different $K_x^*$ values for crosslinking within and among various domains. The proportion of ligand $i$ in all monomers is $C_i$. By this setup, we know $\sum_{i=1}^{N_L} C_i = 1$. $R_{\mathrm{tot},i}$ is the total number of receptor $i$ expressed on the cell surface, and $R_{\mathrm{eq},i}$ the number of unbound receptors $i$ on a cell at the equilibrium state during the ligand complex-receptor interaction.

The binding configuration at the equilibrium state between an individual complex and a cell expressing various receptors can be described as a vector $\mathbf{q} = (q_{1,0}, q_{1,1}, ..., q_{1,N_R}, q_{2,0},..., q_{2,N_R},q_{3,0},..., q_{N_L, N_R})$ of length $N_L(N_R+1)$, where $q_{i,j}$ is the number of ligand $i$ bound to receptor $j$, and $q_{i,0}$ is the number of unbound ligand $i$ on that complex in this configuration. The sum of elements in $\mathbf{q}$ is equal to $f$ , the effective avidity. For all $i$ in $\{1,2,..., N_L\}$, let $φ_{i,j} = R_{\mathrm{eq},j} K_{a,ij} K_x^* C_i$ when $j$ is in $\{1,2,...,N_R\}$, and $φ_{i,0} = C_i$. The relative amount of complexes in the configuration described by $\mathbf{q}$ at equilibrium is

{% raw %}
$$v_{\mathbf{q},eq} = \binom{f}{\mathbf{q}} \frac{L_0}{K_x^* } \prod_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}},$$
{% endraw %}

with $\binom{f}{\mathbf{q}}$ being the multinomial coefficient. Then the total relative amount of bound receptor type $n$ at equilibrium is

{% raw %}
$$ R_{\mathrm{bound},n} = \frac{L_0 f}{K_x^* } \sum_{m=0}^{N_L}φ_{mn} \left(\sum_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}}\right)^{f-1} .$$
{% endraw %}

By conservation of mass, we know that $R_{\mathrm{tot},n} = R_{\mathrm{eq},n} + R_{\mathrm{bound},n}$ for each receptor type $n$, while $R_{\mathrm{bound},n}$ is a function of $R_{\mathrm{eq},n}$. Therefore, each $R_{\mathrm{eq},n}$ can be solved numerically using $R_{\mathrm{tot},n}$. Similarly, the total relative amount of complexes bound to at least one receptor on the cell is

{% raw %}
$$ L_{\mathrm{bound}} = \frac{L_0}{K_x^* } \left [\left(\sum_{i=1\\ j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R}{{φ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}}\right)^f -1 \right] .$$
{% endraw %}

### Generalized multivalent binding model with defined complexes

When complexes are engineered and ligands are not randomly sorted into multivalent complexes, such as with the Fabs of bispecific antibodies, the proportions of each kind of complex become exogenous variables and are no longer decided by the monomer composition $C_i$'s. The monomer composition of a ligand complex can be represented by a vector $\mathbf{θ} = (θ_1, θ_2, ..., θ_{N_L})$, where each $θ_i$ is the number of monomer ligand type $i$ on that complex. Let $C_{\mathbf{θ}}$ be the proportion of the $\mathbf{θ}$ complexes in all ligand complexes, and $Θ$ be the set of all possible $\mathbf{θ}$'s. We have $\sum_{\mathbf{θ} \in Θ} C_{\mathbf{θ}} = 1$.

The binding between a ligand complex and a cell expressing several types of receptors can still be represented by a series of $q_{ij}$. The relationship between $q_{ij}$'s and $θ_i$ is given by $θ_i = q_{i0} + q_{i1} + ... + q_{iN_R}$. Let the vector $\mathbf{q}_i = (q_{i0}, q_{i1}, ..., q_{iN_R})$, and the corresponding $\mathbf{θ}$ of a binding configuration $\mathbf{q}$ be $\mathbf{θ}(\mathbf{q})$. For all $i$ in $\{1,2,...,N_L\}$, we define $ψ_{ij} = R_{\mathrm{eq},j} K_{a,ij} K_x^*$ where $j = \{1,2,...,N_R\}$ and $ψ_{i0} = 1$. The relative amount of complexes bound to a cell with configuration $\mathbf{q}$ at equilibrium is

{% raw %}
$$v_{\mathbf{q},eq} = \frac{L_0 C_{\mathbf{θ}(\mathbf{q})}}{K_x^* }
\prod_{i=1\\j=0}^{i=N_L\\ j=N_R} {ψ_{ij}}^{q_{ij}}
\prod_{i=1}^{N_L} \binom{θ_i}{\mathbf{q}_i} .$$
{% endraw %}

Then we can calculate the relative amount of bound receptor $n$ as

{% raw %}
$$
R_{\mathrm{bound},n} = \frac{L_0}{K_x^* } \sum_{\mathbf{θ} \in Θ} C_{\mathbf{θ}}
\left[ \sum_{i=1}^{N_L} \frac{ψ_{in} θ_i}{\sum_{j=0}^{N_R} ψ_{ij}} \right]
\prod_{i=1}^{N_L} \left( \sum_{j=0}^{N_R} ψ_{ij}\right)^{θ_i} .
$$
{% endraw %}

By $R_{\mathrm{tot},n} = R_{\mathrm{eq},n} + R_{\mathrm{bound},n}$, we can solve $R_{\mathrm{eq},n}$ numerically for each type of receptor. The total relative amount of ligand binding at equilibrium is

{% raw %}
$$ L_{\mathrm{bound}} =  \frac{L_0}{K_x^* } \sum_{\mathbf{θ} \in Θ} C_{\mathbf{θ}}
\left[ \prod_{i=1}^{N_L} \left( \sum_{j=0}^{N_R} ψ_{ij}\right)^{θ_i} -1 \right] .$$
{% endraw %}

### Mathematical optimization

We used the SciPy function `scipy.optimize.minimize` to combine several strategies and achieve optimal selectivity [@doi:10.1038/s41592-019-0686-2]. Unless specified otherwise, the initial values for optimization were $10^{-12}$ for crosslinking coefficient $K_x^*$, 1 for valency $f$, 100% ligand 1 for mixture composition, and $1 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ for the affinity dissociation constants. For $K_x^*$, our previous study on IgG-Fc receptor interaction utilized this binding model and fit it on in vitro immune complex binding measurement. Its value was roughly $10^{-12}$ [@doi:10.1016/j.cels.2018.05.018]. In this study, we fit our model to the multivalent nanoring measurements (See "Reimplementation of Csizmar et al. [@doi:10.1021/jacs.8b09198]"), and the $K_x^*$ values were in similar range ($10^{-12.7}$ and $10^{-14.7}$). In order to optimize ligand characteristics for cell type-specificity we defined different ligand engineering strategies, and allowed various ligand characteristics to vary accordingly. For all optimization strategies, $K_x^*$ was allowed to vary 1000-fold from $10^{-12}$, thus $10^{-15}$ to $10^{-9}$.In the "affinity" approach, we allowed the dissociation constant for ligands to vary between $10 \,\mathrm{mM}$ and $0.1 \,\mathrm{nM}$ for both receptors. We then allowed the valency of the ligand to vary between 1 and 16 when considering the "valency + affinity" engineering approach. In the "mixture approach, the content of a mixture of two ligands was allowed to vary between 100% of ligand one to 100% ligand two, and the receptor affinities of both ligands were allowed to vary as previously described. Finally, all ligand characteristics were allowed to vary simultaneously to model the "all" approach. Local optimal selectivities were reliant on optimization initialization, and thus selection of the optimal parameter initial points was performed within the previously described bounds.

### Sigma point filter

To consider the intrapopulation variance of a cell population in the optimization, we implemented the sigma point filters [@wikidata:Q99353631], a computationally efficient method to approximate the variance proprogated through an ordinary differential equation-based model.

### Reimplementation of Csizmar et al.

To validate our model, we recapitulated multivalent binding data from Csizmar et al. using our multivalent binding model (Fig. S1) [@doi:10.1021/jacs.8b09198]. Here, fluorescently labeled nanorings displaying 1, 2, 4, and 8 fibronectin clones, which bind to epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) antigens, were fabricated. Binding activity of nanorings displaying both high (C5) and low (B22) affinity EpCAM binding domains was measured. Binding to an EpCAM^high^ ($3.3 \times 10^6$ antigens/cell) population was measured using flow cytometry. We used nonlinear least squares optimization, as described above, to fit our multivalent binding model to the binding data, using a unique scaling factor for each fibronectin clone to convert between measured fluorescent intensity and magnitude of ligand bound. We allowed affinity of the fibronectin clones to vary during optimization.
