## Supplementary Figures

![**Affinity provides selectivity to cell populations with divergent receptor expression.** a) Heat/contour maps of monovalent ligand binding to cell populations given the surface abundance of two receptors. Ligand dissociation constants to these receptors range from $10 \mathrm{\mu M} \sim 100 \mathrm{nM}$. Ligand concentration $L_0=1 \mathrm{nM}$. b-e) Heatmap of binding ratio of cell populations exposed to a monovalent ligand with dissociation constants to receptor 1 and 2 ranging from $10^{4} \sim 10^{2} \mathrm{nM}$, at a concentration $L_0 = 1 \mathrm{nM}$. Ligand bound ratio of (b) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$, (c) $R_1^{med}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$, (d) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$, and (e) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$.](figureS1.svg){#fig:affinity tag="S1"}

![**Valency provides selectivity based on receptor expression levels.** a) Heat/contour maps of multivalent ligands bound to cell populations given their expression profiles of two receptors. Multivalent ligand subunits bind to only $R_1$ with an dissociation constant of $100\, \mathrm{nM}$, and do not bind to $R_2$. Complexes vary in valency from 1 to 16. Ligand concentration $L_0=1 \,\mathrm{nM}$; crosslinking constant $K_x^*=10^{-10}$. b-d) Ligand binding ratio between various cell populations for ligands of valency ranging from 1 to 16. The shaded areas indicate the variance of binding ratios caused by the intrapopulation heterogeneity and estimated by sigma point filters. b) Ligand bound ratio of $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$, c) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$, and d) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{med}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{med}$. e-f) Number of ligand bound to each possible number of receptors for cells exposed to octavalent ligand complexes composed of subunits with dissociation constants of $1000$, $100$, or $10\, \mathrm{nM}$ for receptor 1. e) Number of octavalent complex bound at each degree for a cell with $10^4$ receptors. f) Number of octavalent complex bound at each degree for a cell with $10^3$ receptors. g) Ratio of forward to reverse binding rate for secondary binding events for multivalent ligands to cells expressing variable amounts of receptors.](figureS2.svg){#fig:valency tag="S2"}

![**Our model is able to recapitulate experimental multivalent binding activity.** a) Experimental vs. predicted fluorescent units for MCF-7 cells expressing $3.8 \times 10^{6}$ fibronectin receptors per cell bound to nanorings expressing one, two, four or eight fibronectin binding domains at concentrations of $0.16–500\, \mathrm{nM}$. C5 and B22 are high and low affinity fibronectin binding domains respectively. Using nonlinear least-squares regression, the crosslinking coefficient was found to be $1.11 \times 10^{-12}$; the dissociation constants for C5 and B22 were found to be $1.73 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ and $3.24 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ respectively, and ligand to fluorescent conversion factor for C5 and B22 were found to be $5.1 \times 10^{-2}$ and $3.2 \times 10^{-2}$ respectively. b) Predicted fluorescent values for MDA cells expressing $5.2 \times 10^{4}$, SK cells expressing $2.2 \times 10^{5}$, LNCaP cells expressing $2.8 \times 10^{6}$, and MCF-7 cells expressing $3.8 \times 10^{6}$ receptors per cell as described in Csizmar et al. [@doi:10.1021/jacs.8b09198]. Fluorescence was predicted for interactions with octa- and tetravalent ligands expressing either C5 or B22 fibronecting binding domains. c) Predicted binding ratios of MCF-7 cells to MDA cells when bound with octa- and tetravalent ligands expressing either C5 or B22 fibronecting binding domains. d) Experimental vs. predicted fluorescent units for MCF-7 cells following model opimization and experimentally determined ligand affinities. Here, the crosslinking coefficient was found to be $5.61 \times 10^{-20}$, and the ligand to fluorescent conversion factor for C5 and B22 were found to be $9.2 \times 10^{-3}$ and $4.1 \times 10^{-2}$ respectively.](figureS3.svg){#fig:Csizmar tag="S3"}

![**Ligand mixtures with non-overlapping responses can enhance selectivity.** a) Heat/contour maps of multivalent ligands bound to cell populations given their expression profiles of two receptors. A mixture of monovalent ligands is used, with ligand 1 binding to receptor 1 and 2 with dissociation constants of $1 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ and $10 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ respectively, and ligand 2 binding to receptors 1 and 2 with dissociation constants of $10 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ and $1 \,\mathrm{\mu M}$ respectively. Ligand concentration $L_0=1 \,\mathrm{nM}$; crosslinking constant $K_x^*=10^{-10}$. b,c) Ratio of ligand bound to cell populations exposed to monovalent mixtures of ligand 1 and 2. The ratio of the target population to the single off target population with the greatest ligand bound is plotted. The shaded areas indicate the variance caused by intrapopulation heterogeneity, estimated by sigma point filters. b) Ligand bound ratio of $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ to $R_1^{med}R_2^{lo}$, c) $R_1^{hi}R_2^{hi}$ to $R_1^{hi}R_2^{lo}$ and $R_1^{lo}R_2^{hi}$.](figureS4.svg){#fig:mixture tag="S4"}
